Kawasaki Heavy Industries
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.
Kobe Crystal Tower, Kawasaki Heavy Industries' headquarters in Kobe
Native name 川崎重工業株式会社
Romanized name Kawasaki Jūkōgyō Kabushiki-gaisha
Type Public KK
Traded as TYO: 7012
Industry Heavy equipment
Automotive
Defense
Founded 15 October 1896; 124 years ago
Founder Shōzō Kawasaki
Headquarters Chūō, Kobe, Japan
Minato, Tokyo, Japan
Key people Yoshinori Kanehana
(Chairman)
Yasuhiko Hashimoto
(President & CEO)
Products Rolling stock, Aerospace, Shipbuilding, Construction, Automobiles
Brands Kips (K) OTR.ind.2016 Kawasaki motor corps
Revenue ¥1.3 trillion[1] (2011)
Operating income ¥57.4 billion[1] (2011)
Net income ¥23.3 billion[1] (31 March 2012)
Total assets ¥1.3 trillion[1] (31 March 2012)
Total equity ¥315.9 billion[1] (2011)
Number of employees 34,010 (As of 31 March 2013)
Subsidiaries
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Aerospace Company
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Rolling Stock Company
Kawasaki Shipbuilding Corporation
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Motorcycle & Engine
Website www.khi.co.jp (Japanese site)
global.kawasaki.com (global site)
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (KHI) (川崎重工業株式会社, Kawasaki Jūkōgyō Kabushiki-gaisha) (or simply Kawasaki) is a Japanese public multinational corporation primarily known as a manufacturer of motorcycles, engines, heavy equipment, aerospace and defense equipment, rolling stock and ships, headquartered in Chūō, Kobe and Minato, Tokyo, Japan. It is also active in the production of industrial robots, gas turbines, pumps, boilers and other industrial products. The company is named after its founder Shōzō Kawasaki. KHI is known as one of the three major heavy industrial manufacturers of Japan, alongside Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and IHI. Prior to the Second World War, KHI was part of the Kobe Kawasaki zaibatsu, which included Kawasaki Steel and Kawasaki Kisen. After the conflict, KHI became part of the DKB Group (keiretsu).[citation needed]
Contents
1 History
2 Products
2.1 Aerospace
2.2 Rolling stock
2.3 Shipbuilding
2.4 Energy plants and facilities
2.5 Industrial equipment
2.6 Environment and recycling
2.7 Infrastructure
2.8 Transportation
3 Affiliates and subsidiaries
3.1 Japan
3.2 International
3.2.1 East Asia
3.2.2 Europe
3.2.3 North America
3.2.4 Oceania
3.2.5 South America
3.2.6 South Asia
3.2.7 Southeast Asia
4 References
5 External links
History[edit]
Shozo Kawasaki, born in 1836, was involved with the marine industry from a young age. He was involved with two offshore disasters but accredited his survival to the modernization of the ships. This led to the decision to create technological innovations for the Japanese shipping industry. In 1878, after struggling to find business, his first order was placed. This is marked as the company's start in the industry.
In 1886, Kawasaki moved the business from Tokyo to Hyogo. This allowed space for the rise of orders placed to his company and the renaming to Kawasaki Dockyard. The new and improved company went public as Kawasaki Dockyard Co., Ltd when the demand for ships rose during the Sino-Japanese War of 1894. Kojiro Matsukata was announced as the company's first president.
After opening a new factory in 1906, Kawasaki began diversifying its products. They began to produce parts for the railroad, automotive, and airplane industry by the end of World War 1. After the war, along with the Allied arms-limitation agreement in 1912, Kawasaki faced a huge decline in shipbuilding. In 1929, the Depression caused a large amount of financial problems with the company.
In late 1947, the government introduced a new shipbuilding agenda and gave Kawasaki a rise in profits and helped restore the company. The company was able to resume all operations and by the 1950s, Japan was leading as the world's largest shipbuilder.
By the late 1960s into the 1970s Kawasaki had begun to withdraw from the shipbuilding industry and diversified its company, producing motorcycles, jet skis, bridges, tunnel-boring machines, and aircraft. They also supplied technologically advanced railroad cars to the New York subway system.
In 1995, Kawasaki Heavy Industries came to an agreement with China to produce the largest containerships known to man. This led to the company announcing higher than expected profits in 1996. However, shortly after the profits, the company saw a long decline in business forcing them to find a solution.
With the company seeing continuous losses in the 21st Century. It formed a joint venture with Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co. However, by the end of 2001, the agreement was terminated. In the following years, Kawasaki Heavy Industries Co. have seen a fluctuation of profits and losses[2]
Products[edit]
Aerospace[edit]
Main article: Kawasaki Aerospace Company
The Japanese Experiment Module Kibō (きぼう, 'Hope')
Kawasaki C-2 military transport aircraft
A Kawasaki T-4 of the Japan Air Self-Defense Force
Kawasaki is active in a diverse range of the aerospace industry. The company is a contractor for the Japanese Ministry of Defense and has built aircraft such as the C-1 transport aircraft, T-4 intermediate jet trainer, and the P-3C antisubmarine warfare patrol airplane. Since 2007, it has built the P-1 maritime patrol aircraft, and since 2010, it has built the C-2 transport aircraft. Kawasaki also builds helicopters, including the BK117, jointly developed and manufactured with MBB. It also produces the CH-47J / JA helicopter.[3]
In the commercial aviation business, the company is involved in the joint international development and production of large passenger aircraft. It is involved in joint development and production of the Boeing 767, Boeing 777 and Boeing 787 with The Boeing Company,[4] and the 170, 175, 190 and 195 jets with Empresa Brasileira de Aeronáutica. It is also involved in the joint international development and production of turbofan engines for passenger aircraft such as the V2500, the RB211/Trent, the PW4000 and the CF34.
Kawasaki also works for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. The company was responsible for the development and production of the payload fairings, payload attach fittings (PAF) and the construction of the launch complex for the H-II rocket. It continues to provide services for the H-IIA rocket.
Kawasaki has also participated in projects such as the development of reusable launch vehicles for spacecraft that will handle future space transport, space robotics projects such as the Japanese Experiment Module for the International Space Station, the cancelled HOPE-X experimental orbiting plane and the docking mechanism for the ETS-VII. According to a document from July 1997, they would have been a major manufacturer of the Kankoh-maru space tourism vehicle (also known as the Kawasaki S-1), which never saw production.[5]
Main products
Aircraft
Space systems
Helicopters
Simulators
Jet engines
Missiles
Electronic equipment
Rolling stock[edit]
Lineup of JR East Shinkansen trains, October 2009
A train of Kawasaki MARC III bi-levels at BWI Rail Station on the Penn Line headed towards Baltimore.
Main article: Kawasaki Heavy Industries Rolling Stock Company
Kawasaki is Japan's largest manufacturer of rolling stock. It began operations in the industry in 1906. It manufactures express and commuter trains, subway cars, freight trains, locomotives, monorails and new transit systems. Kawasaki is also involved in the development and design of high-speed trains such as Japan's Shinkansen.
Main Products
Electric cars (including Shinkansen trains)
Monorails
Passenger coaches and freight cars
Diesel locomotives
Electric locomotives
Platform screen door systems
Passenger coaches and freight cars integrated transit systems
Shipbuilding[edit]
Main article: Kawasaki Shipbuilding Corporation
Shipbuilding is the historical industry in which Kawasaki Heavy Industries was created and developed, as from the company's 1878 founding as the Kawasaki Dockyard Co.
Kawasaki Shipbuilding Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kawasaki Heavy Industries. Its product range include high-performance LNG and LPG carriers, container ships, bulk carriers and VLCCs, as well as submarines. The company is also involved in the development of offshore structures and research vessels.
Kawasaki also produces marine machinery and equipment, including main engines, propulsion systems, steering gears, deck and fishing machinery.
Kawasaki Shipbuilding Corp – Kobe Works
Kawasaki has shipyards at Kobe and Sakaide, Kagawa. (Kagawa Prefecture). The company also builds ships as a part of joint ventures with COSCO in China, i.e. the Nantong COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co., Ltd.(NACKS), in Nantong, China, and the Dalian COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co., Ltd.(DACKS), in Dalian, China.
Main products
LNG carriers
LPG carriers
Container ships
High speed vessels
Submarines
VLCCs (Very Large Crude Carriers)
Bulk carriers
Offshore structures
Marine machinery and equipment
Energy plants and facilities[edit]
Kawasaki's key offering are high-performance gas turbines. The company is also involved in development of new energy sources as an alternative to fossil fuels such as wind power generation, biomass power generation, photovoltaic systems and rechargeable batteries.
Main products
Small and medium-sized gas turbine generators
Gas turbine cogeneration systems
Gas engines
Diesel engines
Wind turbine generators
Ash handling systems
Combined cycle power plants
Nuclear power plant equipment
Boilers
[citation needed]
Industrial equipment[edit]
Kawasaki FS-03N industrial robot
Kawasaki develops and builds a vast array of industrial plants and equipment, including large cement, chemical and nonferrous metal plants, prime movers, and compact precision machinery. It also offers industrial plant engineering from design to sales.
Kawasaki also develops automation systems. Industrial robots for processes such as assembly, handling, welding, painting and sealing, as well as automation systems for distribution and logistics such as automated product- and cargo-handling systems for plants and airports.
Main products
Industrial plants
Industrial robots
Aerodynamic machinery
Hydraulic equipment
Environment and recycling[edit]
Kawasaki is involved in the development of equipment that prevents pollution in a wide range of industries. Among the leading products are fuel gas desulfurization and denitrification systems, and ash handling systems. The company also supplies municipal refuse incineration plants, gasification and melting systems, sewage treatment and sludge incineration plants.
Kawasaki has also been developing systems that enable a wide range of municipal and industrial waste to be recovered, recycled and put to new use. Such systems include refuse paper and plastic fuel production facilities that convert wastepaper/plastics into an easy-to-handle solid fuel, equipment that converts old tires into highway paving materials and tiles, and machinery that sorts glass bottles by size and color.
Main products
Municipal refuse incineration plants
Water treatment systems
Industrial waste recycling equipment
Flue-gas desulfurization equipment
Infrastructure[edit]
Kawasaki's history of building steel structures spans more than a century, with bridge-building among its first businesses. The company offers of storage management for LNG,
Kawasaki's portfolio also includes retractable roofs, floors and other giant structures, the Sapporo Dome's retractable surface is one example.
For construction, Kawasaki produces products such as wheel loaders, tunnel machines, rollers, snowplows and purpose-specific loaders. The tunnel boring machines used to excavate the Channel Tunnel and the 14.14 m diameter shield machines used in the Tokyo Bay Aqua-Line construction are two well-known examples.[citation needed]
Main products
Wheel loaders
Construction machinery
Shield Machines
Tunnel boring machines
Steel bridges
LNG and LPG tanks
Airport and port-related products
Snowplows
Transportation[edit]
Kawasaki Ninja H2R
Kawasaki Ninja ZX-RR
Kawasaki XI750R
Kawasaki Mule 006
Main article: Kawasaki Heavy Industries Motorcycle & Engine
Kawasaki produces motorcycles, Jet Skis, ATVs and cars. Kawasaki's motorcycle include the Ninja sport bikes, and cruisers, dual-purpose and motocross motorcycles, as well as utility vehicles, ATVs and general-purpose gasoline engines. Kawasaki's "Jet Ski" has become a genericized trademark for any type of personal watercraft.
Affiliates and subsidiaries[edit]
Japan[edit]
Akashi Ship Model Basin Co., Ltd.
Alna Yusoki-Yohin Co., Ltd.
Benic Solution Corp.
EarthTechnica Co., Ltd.
Enetec Co., Ltd.
Fukae Powtec Corp.
JP Steel Plantech Co.
Kawaju Akashi Service Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Engineering Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Oita Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Metal Industries, Ltd.
Kawasaki Setsubi Kogyo Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Shipbuilding Corporation
Kawasaki Plant Systems, Ltd.
Kawasaki Precision Machinery Ltd.
Kawasaki Machine Systems, Ltd.
Kawasaki Motors Corporation Japan
Kawasaki Hydromechanics Corp.
Kawasaki Life Corporation
Kawasaki Naval Engine Service, Ltd.
Kawaju Akashi Engineering Co., Ltd.
KEE Environmental Construction, Co. Ltd.
KEE Environmental Service, Ltd.
Kawaju Gifu Service Co., Ltd.
Kawaju Gifu Engineering Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Prime Mover Engineering Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Construction Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Rolling Stock Technology Co., Ltd.
Kawaju Shoji Co., Ltd.
Kawaju Techno Service Corp.
Kawaju Tokyo Service Corp.
Kawaju Facilitech Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Thermal Engineering Co., Ltd.
K Career Partners Corp.
K-GES Co., Ltd.
K-Tec Corp.
KGM (Kawaju Gifu Manufacturing) Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Setsubi Kogyo Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Construction Machinery, Hokkaido Ltd.
Kawaju Sakaide Service Co., Ltd.
Kawaju Kobe Support Co., Ltd.
Kawaju Marine Engineering Co., Ltd.
KHI JPS Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Shipbuilding Inspection Co., Ltd.
Kawasaki Gas Turbine Research Center Ltd.
Nichijo Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
NIPPI Corporation
Sapporo Kawasaki Rolling Stock Engineering Co., Ltd.
Technica Corp.
Union Precision Die Co., Ltd.
International[edit]
East Asia[edit]
Kawasaki Marine Machinery Co. Ltd. (Wuhan, Hubei, China)
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ship Engineering Co. Ltd. (Nantong, Jiangsu, China; COSCO)
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Machinery Trading Co. Ltd. (Shanghai, China)
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Technology Co. Ltd. (Dalian, Liaoning, China)
Kawasaki Precision Machinery (China) Ltd.
Kawasaki Robotics Co. Ltd. (Tianjin, China)
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (Hong Kong)
Kawasaki Machine Systems Ltd. (South Korea)
Europe[edit]
Kawasaki Precision Machinery (U.K.) Limited
Kawasaki Robotics (U.K.) Ltd.
Kawasaki Robotics G.m.b.H.
Kawasaki Gas Turbine Europe GmbH
Kawasaki Motors Europe N.V.
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Europe Finance B.V.
Kawasaki Heavy Industries (Europe) B.V.
North America[edit]
A train of Kawasaki R62 subway cars on the New York City Subway line.
A set of Kawasaki's M8 railcars on the New Haven Line.
Canadian Kawasaki Motors Inc.
Kawasaki Construction Machinery Corp. of America
Kawasaki Heavy Industries (U.S.A.), Inc.
Kawasaki Motors Corp., U.S.A.
Kawasaki Motors Manufacturing Corp., U.S.A.
Kawasaki Precision Machinery (U.S.A.), Inc.
Kawasaki Rail Car, Inc.
Kawasaki Robotics (U.S.A.), Inc.
Oceania[edit]
Kawasaki Motors Pty. Ltd.
South America[edit]
Kawasaki do Brasil Indústria e Comércio Ltda.
Kawasaki Machinery do Brasil Maq. Equip. Ltda.
Kawasaki Motores do Brasil Ltda.
Estaleiro Enseada do Paraguaçu S.A.
South Asia[edit]
India Kawasaki Motors (India)
Kawasaki Motors (Bangladesh)
Southeast Asia[edit]
Kawasaki Gas Turbine Asia Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia)
Kawasaki Motors (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia)
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Pte. Ltd. (Singapore)
Kawasaki Motors Enterprise Co. Ltd. (Thailand)
KDT (KHI Design & Technical Service, Inc. (Pasay, Philippines)
Kawasaki Motors Philippines (Muntinlupa, Philippines)
P.T. Kawasaki Motor (Indonesia)
References[edit]
^
a b c d e "Financial Result FY2011" (PDF). Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. And consolidated subsidiaries. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 12 June 2012.
^ "History of Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. – FundingUniverse". www.fundinguniverse.com. Retrieved 2020-09-19.
^ Parsons, Dan. "Boeing set to deliver 100th Japanese CH-47 fuselage", FlightGlobal, 2 December 2014. Accessed 12 January 2016.
^ Kelly, Tim. "Giant Japanese oven gives Boeing room to ramp up 787 output", Reuters, 13 March 2013. Accessed 19 January 2016.
^ Anderson, Erik (July 1997). "Kankoh-maru Flight Manual". Space Future. Retrieved 2020-03-06.
External links[edit]
Official website
show
vte
Companies & Divisions of Kawasaki Heavy Industries
show
vte
Automotive industry in Japan

show
vte
Major and notable Japanese motorcycle marques
show
vte
Nikkei 225 companies of Japan
show
Authority control
Categories: Kawasaki Heavy IndustriesConglomerate companies of JapanDefense companies of JapanLocomotive manufacturers of JapanTruck manufacturers of JapanMotorcycle manufacturers of JapanRolling stock manufacturers of JapanShipbuilding companies of JapanAircraft manufacturers of JapanAircraft engine manufacturers of JapanAerospace companies of JapanGas turbine manufacturersRobotics companies of JapanKeiretsuZaibatsuMultinational companies headquartered in JapanManufacturing companies based in KobeVehicle manufacturing companies established in 1896Japanese companies established in 1896Companies listed on the Tokyo Stock ExchangeConglomerate companies established in 1896Diesel engine manufacturersMarine engine manufacturersMotorcycle engine manufacturersEngine manufacturers of JapanConstruction equipment manufacturers of JapanGas engine manufacturersPump manufacturersElectric motor manufacturersManufacturers of industrial automationIndustrial robotics companies
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history
Search
Main page
Contents
Current events
Random article
About Wikipedia
Contact us
Donate
Contribute
Help
Learn to edit
Community portal
Recent changes
Upload file
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page
Wikidata item
Print/export
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Languages
العربية
Deutsch
Español
Français
한국어
Italiano
日本語
Русский
中文
24 more
Edit links
This page was last edited on 24 August 2021, at 07:54 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement